
FreeGIS Worlddata
===========================

These sample geodata have been extracted from VMAP0 R3. To avoid the raster
grids the original data has been processed by grass by reclassifying an
dissolving all polygons. The result is polygon data set with boundaries of
most of the countries of the world. 

The the country data of the FreeGIS Worlddata are provided in two version, one
containing the full resolution of the original data. The other one has been
simplified using the Douglas-Peuker algorithm (tolerance value 0.25). The
second one is called country_simpl. This package only contains the simplified
version of the data.

Some population data coming from the U.S. Census Bureau has been joined to the
plygons. The data is coming from http://www.census.gov/cgi-bin/ipc/idbagg and
represents the population by age and sex from 2004.

There are several different 2-letter codes to represent the countries of the
world. One is called FIBS which is used by VMAP0. The ISO Alpha 2-Letter code
(ISO 639-1) is more commonly used for example by the data providers of the UN.
You find therefor a dbf-file containing the ISO 639-1 as well as the fibs code
and all country names. Some cells have been left blank since not all countries
are represented by both systems.

The RPM-package 'freegis_worlddata' contains one thuban session file (placed in
/usr/share/geodata/freegis_worlddata/.thuban) as well as a grass display
manager file (/usr/share/geodata/freegis_worlddata/pop.dm) which help to have a
first look onto the data. in /usr/share/geodata/freegis_worlddata/GRASSHowTo
you learn how to import the data into GRASS and do some basic visualization.

License
-------
The FreeGIS worlddata are licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License (GPL). This will perhaps be changed in future versions when a better
licence which is better suitable for free geodata becomes available.


